# COMP210_3_journal

## [Hardware Interfaces for VR Applications: Evaluation on Prototypes](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/xpls/icp.jsp?arnumber=7363283)

This paper starts by introducing VR and outlining the criteria for an effective Virtual Reality System. It is absolutely vital that users feel completely immersed in the world so that they don't feel like they're just playing a game. The next part of the paper goes into the different forms of mixed reality interfaces and how they work, as well as how well they help to immerse the player in the game world. The author goes on to evaluate two virtual reality games that both use HMD's (Head Mounted Display) but which use different forms of user input, one using an xbox controller and the other using the popular Hydra motion controllers. The results of his tests showed that students were more comfortable using the xbox controller, however after they were given tutorial sessions with the Hydra they actually prefered this. The users that weren't studying technology courses also agreed that users should be familiar with the hardware if they are to enjoy it to its fullest. The author proceeds to talk about motion sickness with virtual reality and concludes that this is down to the game having a lot of action however fails to mention how players move around in the games which is a key factor in my opinion. The paper predicts that following its release several new technologies will launch that will improve VR dramatically and allow for full body motion capture, I find this very interesting as I recently looked at how Bethesda implemented VR in Fallout 4 and noticed that you still have to use a joystick to move around.

## [Exploitation of heuristics for virtual environments](https://dl-acm-org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/citation.cfm?id=2399065)

This paper explored the various methods for heauristics analysis using Virtual Reality. It starts out by mentioning that although Nielsen's heuristics have been hugely popular they are way to generic for use within specific fields and that new methods have been proposed for this exact reason. This paper actually states that its purpose is to research how VR Heuristics has been exploited and to look at how useful various papers for how useful they found heuristics. They also propose using a patchwork heuristics method should be very useful in uncovering problems and by using these bespoke heuristics they can categorize these issues. It was important to note that although Nielsons Heuristics were used some of the categories had no issues as they just weren't relevant in this context. I think this paper has suggested that heuristics need to be tailored to the client if they are to effectively find 90% of issues that it claims to.

## [Investigating the balance between virtuality and reality in mobile mixed reality UI design: user perception of an augmented city](https://dl-acm-org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/citation.cfm?id=2641201)

This paper looked at how peoples perceptions of augmented reality and augmented virtuality UI's in mobile games. They conducted a field study of 35 users who interacted with a mobile mixed reality game with two different UI designs as well as a 100 person online survey. I belive that this papers purpose was to help people understand how mixed reality can be used effectivley and what to avoid, which could be incredibly helpful for us as we endeavour to create our own VR/AR games in the future. Their research showed that while 3D rendering is visually more impressive and provides more clarity and usability, people generally liked the camera view model more visually appealing to look at was much easier to understand. The survey agrees with this by showing that people greatly prefered the AR camera model with the main issues with it being that it was harder to see occasionally due to sun reflections and shadows, as light is kind of a key factor in AR games. This does show however that the 3D model is still very useful, as things happening in the real world city could interupt gameplay. Users who suffer with poor eye sight will also find that the 3D model is better suited to them as it gives a lot of clarity and helps them to percieve distances easier. In terms of performance it was found that the 3D model was a lot hard to handle and therefore needed more powerful devices. It is obvious to me that both UI's have there postitives and negatives which is why they suggest methods of using hybrid UI's or the ability to switch between each as they choose. The paper has really helped me to think about how I want to present my UI in our future games some important factors to think about.

## [Homuncular Flexibility in Virtual Reality](http://web.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/ehost/detail/detail?vid=0&sid=53c4d7a0-70c2-4309-b184-4b79be2d16db%40sessionmgr104&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=102884181&db=ufh)

I actually found this paper very interesting as it is something we have mentioned previously in class. The idea is to see how far they can push users to inhabit avatars that are nothing like them. For example how would people learn to control a lobster avatar that has many more libs than a human? Shockingly these tests were ran as far back as 1989 and between then and 1999 a number of increasingly strange non-human avatars were created to push the limits of the human body. Previous research suggests that because humans understand the world through senses the sensory feed back we recieve from these avatars will help us to better understand how we percieve the world. 

They carried out two tests by creating seperate scenarios where avatars which did not fit the human schema would be more successful. In both tests they found that the users would adapt to use their new appendages and both achieved higher than before. For example one test involved the user hitting targets and after a while they began to use their three arms to hit more targets than avatars with two arms. People have been able to manipulate the movement of avatars for a long time even before AR/VR became popular, controllers were used instead but were still just as effective. I instantly think of little big planet where, even though the avatar has a very human like body, you are still able to control every part of its body and control each appendage seperatley.

## [(Re-)examination of multimodal augmented reality](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frobt.2016.00003/full)



## [Real Virtuality: A Code of Ethical Conduct. Recommendations for Good Scientific Practice and the Consumers of VR-Technology](http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/frobt.2016.00003/full)

